overview.asciidoc, before:

---
title: Overview
order: 1
layout: page
---

= Business App Starter

A starter for building responsive business web apps. It contains a collection of components, view templates, theming utilities and best practises that can help teams save more than a week of development time at the start of a new project.

== Features
* Application header with avatar & tab support
* Customisable styles
* Installable on desktop & mobile
* Responsive navigation sidebar
* Templates for CRUD, dashboard & drilldown views
* 100% Java-based templates

image::images/overview-1.png[align=center]

== Structure
The Business App Starter's structure is comprised of several slots designed to help implement any layout.

image::images/structure.png[align=center]

=== Header & Footer Slots
These slots are intended for application-wide navigation, actions and branding. When using both the outer and inner elements, ensure the content hierarchy is clear and that they don't take up too much vertical space.

=== Navigation Slot
The navigation slot is reserved for the `NaviDrawer`: a responsive and collapsible navigation sidebar that houses searchable and hierarchical navigation items. It consists of a header intended for branding & account switching, a list of navigation items, and a footer which by default houses the collapse button.

==== Navigation Modes
The application supports two different navigation modes:

* *Traditional*: clicking a link changes the current view.
* *Tabbed*: a browser-esque experience where users can open and close tabs. Clicking a link changes the content of the current tab.

=== View Slot
The intended slot for views. Place views in this slot by setting the `@Route` annotation's `layout` parameter to `MainLayout.class`.

[source,java]
----
@Route(value = "my-view", layout = MainLayout.class)
@PageTitle("My View")
public class MyView extends ViewFrame {
----

==== ViewFrame & SplitViewFrame
All of the Business App Starter's views extend either `ViewFrame` or `SplitViewFrame`. They simplify the process of creating views that contain a header, (scrollable) content and footer. `SplitViewFrame` houses an additional details slot for creating master-detail views.

=== Layout Examples
Here are a few examples of common layouts used in business applications.

image::images/layout-1.png[align=center]
An often-used composition where the outer header is the most prominent element. The view itself sports a header for showing the title.

Used slots:

* Header (outer)
* Navigation drawer
* View with header

***

image::images/layout-2.png[align=center]
This layout puts more focus on the navigation drawer. Suitable for complex hierarchical navigation structures. The view footer houses view-specific actions.

Used slots:

* Navigation drawer
* Header (inner)
* View with footer

***

image::images/layout-3.png[align=center]
The navigation is placed in the outer header. The view area is maximised but the navigation has to be simple. The view's sidebar is used to display additional details.

Used slots:

* Header (outer)
* View with sidebar

== Custom Components

The Business App Starter comes with the following custom components:

* AppBar & TabBar
* Badge
* DetailsDrawer
* FlexBoxLayout
* ListItem
* NaviDrawer
* NaviTabs (closable)

=== AppBar & TabBar
`AppBar` consists of a main menu icon, contextual navigation icon, title, tabs, action items and avatar. All building blocks are optional.

.AppBar with a main menu icon, title, tabs and avatar.

image::images/app-bar.png[AppBar with a main menu icon, title, tabs and avatar.]

`TabBar` is a simpler version of `AppBar` that discards the contextual navigation icon and title.

=== Badge
Server-side component for link:https://cdn.vaadin.com/vaadin-lumo-styles/1.4.2/demo/badges.html[Lumo badges].

=== DetailsDrawer
Mainly intended for usage in master-detail views. Composed of a header, (scrollable) content and footer.

.Master-detail view with a `DetailsDrawer` shown on the far right.

image::images/details-drawer.png[Master-detail view with a `DetailsDrawer` shown on the far right., align=center]

=== FlexBoxLayout
`FlexBoxLayout` is a server-side implementation of link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout[CSS Flexible Box Layout]. It extends `FlexLayout` and contains convenience methods for setting `flex`, `flex-basis`, `flex-direction`, `flex-shrink` and `flex-wrap`. It also supports setting `background-color`, `margin`, `overflow`, `padding`, `shadow`, `spacing` and `theme`.

=== ListItem
A list item comprised of a prefix, text (primary & secondary) and suffix. Only the primary text is mandatory. Any component can be placed in the prefix and suffix slots.

.`ListItem` with a prefix icon, primary and secondary texts, as well as a suffix button.
image::images/list-item-1.png[`ListItem` with a prefix icon, primary and secondary texts, as well as a suffix button., align=center]

=== NaviTabs
Tabs that when clicked navigate to a specific target (view) and that can be closed.

image::images/navi-tabs.png[align=center]

NOTE: Please remember that all custom components that ship with the Business App Starter can and should be customised to suit your business needs and requirements.

Commit message:

Make it more clear that BAS is commercial

overview.asciidoc, after:

---
title: Overview
order: 1
layout: page
---

= Business App Starter

Business App Starter is a commercial Vaadin starter for building responsive business web apps. It contains a collection of components, view templates, theming utilities and best practises that can help teams save more than a week of development time at the start of a new project. It makes use of Vaadin's free and open source framework and components, as well as commercial components and tools like Charts and TestBench.

== Features
* Application header with avatar & tab support
* Customisable styles
* Installable on desktop & mobile
* Responsive navigation sidebar
* Templates for CRUD, dashboard & drilldown views
* 100% Java-based templates

image::images/overview-1.png[align=center]

== Structure
The Business App Starter's structure is comprised of several slots designed to help implement any layout.

image::images/structure.png[align=center]

=== Header & Footer Slots
These slots are intended for application-wide navigation, actions and branding. When using both the outer and inner elements, ensure the content hierarchy is clear and that they don't take up too much vertical space.

=== Navigation Slot
The navigation slot is reserved for the `NaviDrawer`: a responsive and collapsible navigation sidebar that houses searchable and hierarchical navigation items. It consists of a header intended for branding & account switching, a list of navigation items, and a footer which by default houses the collapse button.

==== Navigation Modes
The application supports two different navigation modes:

* *Traditional*: clicking a link changes the current view.
* *Tabbed*: a browser-esque experience where users can open and close tabs. Clicking a link changes the content of the current tab.

=== View Slot
The intended slot for views. Place views in this slot by setting the `@Route` annotation's `layout` parameter to `MainLayout.class`.

[source,java]
----
@Route(value = "my-view", layout = MainLayout.class)
@PageTitle("My View")
public class MyView extends ViewFrame {
----

==== ViewFrame & SplitViewFrame
All of the Business App Starter's views extend either `ViewFrame` or `SplitViewFrame`. They simplify the process of creating views that contain a header, (scrollable) content and footer. `SplitViewFrame` houses an additional details slot for creating master-detail views.

=== Layout Examples
Here are a few examples of common layouts used in business applications.

image::images/layout-1.png[align=center]
An often-used composition where the outer header is the most prominent element. The view itself sports a header for showing the title.

Used slots:

* Header (outer)
* Navigation drawer
* View with header

***

image::images/layout-2.png[align=center]
This layout puts more focus on the navigation drawer. Suitable for complex hierarchical navigation structures. The view footer houses view-specific actions.

Used slots:

* Navigation drawer
* Header (inner)
* View with footer

***

image::images/layout-3.png[align=center]
The navigation is placed in the outer header. The view area is maximised but the navigation has to be simple. The view's sidebar is used to display additional details.

Used slots:

* Header (outer)
* View with sidebar

== Custom Components

The Business App Starter comes with the following custom components:

* AppBar & TabBar
* Badge
* DetailsDrawer
* FlexBoxLayout
* ListItem
* NaviDrawer
* NaviTabs (closable)

=== AppBar & TabBar
`AppBar` consists of a main menu icon, contextual navigation icon, title, tabs, action items and avatar. All building blocks are optional.

.AppBar with a main menu icon, title, tabs and avatar.

image::images/app-bar.png[AppBar with a main menu icon, title, tabs and avatar.]

`TabBar` is a simpler version of `AppBar` that discards the contextual navigation icon and title.

=== Badge
Server-side component for link:https://cdn.vaadin.com/vaadin-lumo-styles/1.4.2/demo/badges.html[Lumo badges].

=== DetailsDrawer
Mainly intended for usage in master-detail views. Composed of a header, (scrollable) content and footer.

.Master-detail view with a `DetailsDrawer` shown on the far right.

image::images/details-drawer.png[Master-detail view with a `DetailsDrawer` shown on the far right., align=center]

=== FlexBoxLayout
`FlexBoxLayout` is a server-side implementation of link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Flexible_Box_Layout[CSS Flexible Box Layout]. It extends `FlexLayout` and contains convenience methods for setting `flex`, `flex-basis`, `flex-direction`, `flex-shrink` and `flex-wrap`. It also supports setting `background-color`, `margin`, `overflow`, `padding`, `shadow`, `spacing` and `theme`.

=== ListItem
A list item comprised of a prefix, text (primary & secondary) and suffix. Only the primary text is mandatory. Any component can be placed in the prefix and suffix slots.

.`ListItem` with a prefix icon, primary and secondary texts, as well as a suffix button.
image::images/list-item-1.png[`ListItem` with a prefix icon, primary and secondary texts, as well as a suffix button., align=center]

=== NaviTabs
Tabs that when clicked navigate to a specific target (view) and that can be closed.

image::images/navi-tabs.png[align=center]

NOTE: Please remember that all custom components that ship with the Business App Starter can and should be customised to suit your business needs and requirements.
